---
title: AC120-108A Continuous Descent Final Approach
sidebar: true
category: Notes
tag:
  - Advisory Circulars
tocLevels: 10
---

## CHAPTER 2. BACKGROUND

### 2.1 NPAs.

Current NPAs are designed with and without step-down fixes in the Final Approach Segment (FAS). NPAs designed without step-down fixes in the FAS allow for an immediate descent to the minimum descent altitude (MDA) after crossing the final approach fix (FAF). The aircraft remains at the MDA until it descends for the runway or reaches the missed approach point (MAP). This technique is described as the “dive and drive.” NPAs with step-down fix altitudes in the FAS do not allow an immediate descent to the MDA; they require additional pitch and power changes during the vertical descent to the MDA in order to cross at or above the step-down fix altitude. Once the aircraft reaches the MDA, it again remains at the MDA until it descends for the runway or reaches the MAP. In both scenarios, NPAs flown without a constant descent require multiple thrust, pitch, and altitude adjustments inside the FAF. These adjustments increase pilot workload and potential errors during a critical phase of flight. The dive and drive technique also results in the aircraft maintaining an extended level flightpath as low as 250 feet (ft) above the ground in instrument meteorological conditions (IMC). This technique could result in an unsafe final Vertical Path (VPATH) to the runway. This AC describes how to conduct more stabilized approaches.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-108A/Current NPAs are designed with and without step-do.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

### 2.2 Stabilized Approaches.

A stabilized approach is a key feature to a safe approach and landing. Operators are encouraged to use the stabilized approach concept (refer to AC 91-79( )) to help eliminate controlled flights into terrain (CFIT). AC 91-79( ) describes a profile that has an aircraft stabilized before descending through a 1,000 ft window in IMC, or through a 500 ft above touchdown zone elevation (TDZE) window in visual meteorological conditions (VMC) to the landing touchdown point. This profile is characterized by maintaining a stable approach speed, constant descent rate, constant vertical Flight Path Angle (FPA), and the same aircraft configuration. This AC will focus on techniques to fly a stabilized vertical descent from the FAF to the landing touchdown point. It assumes the aircraft is in final configuration approaching the FAF and that the descent profile will adhere to the stabilized approach concept referenced in AC 91-79( ).

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-108A/A stabilized approach is a key feature to a safe a.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

### 2.3 Approach Designs and Continuous Descent.

A precision instrument approach procedure (IAP) (e.g., instrument landing system (ILS) and Ground Based Augmentation System (GBAS) Landing System (GLS)) and some NPA Area Navigation (RNAV) Global Positioning System (GPS) approach procedures with vertical guidance (APV) (e.g., lateral navigation (LNAV)/vertical navigation (VNAV) and localizer performance with vertical guidance (LPV)) have a continuous descent approach profile in their design. Conventional NPAs (e.g., Localizer (LOC) only and very high frequency (VHF) omni-directional range (VOR)) and NPA RNAV approaches (e.g., LNAV and Localizer Performance (LP)) are not designed with a vertical flightpath. RNAV approaches without approved vertical guidance and conventional NPAs should be flown, whenever possible, using a CDFA technique. Flying NPAs with a continuous descent profile can provide a safety advantage over flying approaches using the dive and drive technique. Therefore, the goal of using a CDFA on an NPA is to incorporate the safety benefits from flying a stabilized continuous descent as a standard practice.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-108A/A precision instrument approach procedure (e.g., i.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

### 2.4 Definition of CDFA

CDFA is a technique for flying the FAS of a NPA as a continuous descent. The technique is consistent with stabilized approach procedures and has no level off. A CDFA starts from an altitude/height at or above the FAF and proceeds to an altitude/height approximately 50 ft (15 meters) above the landing runway threshold or to a point where the type of aircraft will begin the flare maneuver.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-108A/CDFA is a technique for flying the final approach.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

### 2.5 Advantages of CDFA

The following is a list of benefits that operators may realize when using a CDFA technique versus not using it:

- Increased safety by employing the concepts of stabilized approach criteria and procedure standardization.
- Improved pilot situational awareness (SA) and reduced pilot workload.
- Improved fuel efficiency by minimizing the low-altitude level flight time.
- Reduced noise level by minimizing the level flight time at high-thrust settings.
- Procedural similarities to APV and precision approach operations.
- Reduced probability of infringement on required obstacle clearance during the FAS.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-108A/The following is a list of benefits that operators.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

## CHAPTER 3. OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES AND FLIGHT TECHNIQUES

### 3.1 Equipment Requirements

A CDFA does not require specific aircraft equipment; however, the aircraft must be equipped to accomplish the NPA procedure. Pilots can safely fly NPAs with a CDFA using basic piloting techniques, aircraft flight management systems (FMS), or RNAV systems. Pilots can use points defined by a DME fix, crossing radial, GPS distance from the runway, etc., on the approach plate to track their progress along both the lateral and vertical approach paths to the MAP.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-108A/A CDFA does not require specific aircraft equipmen.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

### 3.2 Approach Requirements

A CDFA may be flown on any NPA. There are no specific approach requirements nor any requirement for a vertical descent angle (VDA), glide path (GP), or visual descent point (VDP) to be published on an IAP in order to fly a CDFA. However, the use of a published VDA or a GP with a published or derived VDP on the IAP can help pilots calculate a desired rate of descent. This rate of descent may be flown by using the aircraft’s Vertical Velocity Indicator (VVI). A VDA provides FAS advisory vertical information only. A GP provides approved vertical guidance for the FAS. The Terminal Procedures Publication (TPP) IAP Legend (see Figure 3-1, Instrument Approach Procedures Legend) defines both the VDA and GP. Conventional NPAs or RNAV approaches with LNAV- or LP-only minima may or may not be published with a VDA. RNAV approaches with a published decision altitude (DA) (e.g., those with LNAV/VNAV or LPV minima) depict a GP angle. A GLS procedure is also published with a DA and a GP. Aircraft with FMS, barometric vertical navigation (baro-VNAV), Satellite-Based Augmentation System (SBAS) (implemented in the United States as wide area augmentation system (WAAS)), or similar equipment may provide the published VDA or GP when the IAP is selected from the database. Aircraft equipped with FPA allows the pilot to enter an electronic descent angle based on the published VDA or GP. Pilots flying aircraft without either type of equipment should manually compute a required rate of descent for accomplishing the CDFA.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-108A/A CDFA may be flown on any NPA. There are no speci.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

## CHAPTER 4. FLIGHTCREW TRAINING

### 4.1 Use of CDFA.

Using a CDFA on a suitable NPA should be an SOP. Operators who use a CDFA technique on NPAs should incorporate CDFA training into their training programs where NPAs are performed and evaluated. This AC does not recommend one technique over another or recommend all techniques be covered in training. Operators may choose and train to a preferred CDFA method.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-108A/Using a CDFA on a suitable NPA should be an SOP. O.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

### 4.2 Manuals and SOPs.

Operators should revise their flight manuals and/or SOPs to identify CDFAs as a standard method of performing an NPA.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-108A/Operators should revise their flight manuals and_o.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

### 4.3 Training.

Additional flight training to use the CDFA technique is not required for pilots qualified to conduct NPAs with advisory vertical guidance in accordance with the operator’s certificate. However, operators should provide flightcrews with appropriate ground training before performing CDFA operations. The ground training may be computer-based, published in flight operations bulletins, or provided via other similar means deemed acceptable by the Principal Operations Inspector (POI). Flightcrew members should receive training specific to the aircraft type, the installed flight guidance, and the navigation system, and on how to utilize the system when using the CDFA technique for applicable approach profiles. Part 91 operators should be familiar with CDFA techniques and be proficient with navigation systems they use to perform a CDFA, if applicable.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-108A/Additional flight training to use the CDFA techniq.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

### 4.4 Training Program Topics.

Each operator’s CDFA training program should address the following topics:

1. Stabilized Approach Concept. Operators should emphasize the stabilized approach concept and the safety benefits of using the CDFA.
2. When Not to Use CDFA. Operators should discuss approach characteristics (e.g., circling-only minima) and environmental factors (e.g., icing) that could make the use of CDFA inadvisable.
3. Baro-VNAV. Operators should discuss the use of the RNP system’s baro-VNAV advisory vertical guidance, if applicable, during NPA operations.
4. SBAS/WAAS. Operators should discuss the use of the RNP system’s SBAS-based (e.g., WAAS-based) advisory vertical guidance, if applicable, during NPA operations.
5. Calculating Rate of Descent. Operators should discuss methods for translating the published GP or VDA into the required rate of descent for aircraft not equipped with a system capable of computing and flying a vertical profile.
6. Confirming VPATH. Operators should discuss techniques for tracking progress along the final approach vertical profile.
7. Meeting IAP Altitude Restrictions. Operators should discuss techniques for ensuring compliance with all altitude restrictions in the FAS.
8. Calculating a DDA. Operators should discuss how to calculate a DDA to ensure the aircraft does not descend below the MDA when accomplishing a missed approach on a CDFA.
9. Dive and Drive Maneuver. Operators should discuss the impact on approach stabilization by using the dive and drive technique. (See Figure 3-6.)
10. Crew Coordination. Operators should discuss pilot flying (PF) and pilot monitoring (PM) callouts and other crew coordination activities needed to ensure safe transition from the vertical profile to either landing or a go-around/missed approach at the MDA or DDA.
11. Go-Around Prior to MAP. Operators should discuss procedures for executing a go-around prior to reaching the MAP.
12. Visual Glide Slope Indicator (VGSI) and Obstacle Protection. Operators should discuss the need to comply with the VGSI, if available, and discussion of the obstacle protection the VGSI provides in the visual segment.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-108A/Each operator's CDFA training program should addre.mp3"></AudioPlayer>
