---
title: AC120-51E CREW RESOURCE MANAGEMENT TRAINING
sidebar: true
category: Notes
tag:
  - PHAK
tocLevels: 10
---

## DEFINITIONS

The human factors safety challenge and the CRM training response may be defined as follows:

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-51E/The human factors safety challenge and the CRM tra.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

### Human Factors

The multidisciplinary field of human factors is devoted to optimizing human performance and reducing human error. It incorporates the methods and principles of the behavioral and social sciences, engineering, and physiology. It is the applied science that studies people working together in concert with machines. It embraces variables that influence individual performance and variables that influence team or crew performance. It is recognized that inadequate system design or inadequate operator training can contribute to individual human error that leads to system performance degradation. Further, it is recognized that inadequate design and management of crew tasks can contribute to group errors that lead to system performance degradation.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-51E/The multidisciplinary field of human factors is de.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

### CRM Training

The application of team management concepts in the flight deck environment was initially known as cockpit resource management. As CRM training evolved to include flight attendants, maintenance personnel and others, the phrase “Crew Resource Management” was adopted.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-51E/The application of team management concepts in the.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

- As used in this AC, CRM refers to the effective use of all available resources: human resources, hardware, and information. Other groups routinely working with the cockpit crew, who are involved in decisions required to operate a flight safely, are also essential participants in an effective CRM process. These groups include but are not limited to:

  - Aircraft dispatchers.
  - Flight attendants.
  - Maintenance personnel.
  - Air traffic controllers.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-51E/As used in this AC, CRM refers to the effective us.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

- CRM training is one way of addressing the challenge of optimizing the human/machine interface and accompanying interpersonal activities. These activities include team building and maintenance, information transfer, problem solving, decisionmaking, maintaining situation awareness, and dealing with automated systems. CRM training is comprised of three components: initial indoctrination/awareness, recurrent practice and feedback, and continual reinforcement.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-51E/CRM training is one way of addressing the challeng.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

## BASIC CONCEPTS OF CRM

CRM training is based on an awareness that a high degree of technical proficiency is essential for safe and efficient operations. Demonstrated mastery of CRM concepts cannot overcome a lack of proficiency. Similarly, high technical proficiency cannot guarantee safe operations in the absence of effective crew coordination.

- Experience has shown that lasting behavior changes in any environment cannot be achieved in a short time, even if the training is well designed. Trainees need awareness, practice and feedback, and continuing reinforcement: in brief, time to learn attitudes and behaviors that will endure. To be effective, CRM concepts must be permanently integrated into all aspects of training and operations.

- While there are various useful methods in use in CRM training today, certain essentials are universal:

  - CRM training is most effective within a training program centered on clear, comprehensive SOPs.
  - CRM training should focus on the functioning of crewmembers as teams, not as a collection of technically competent individuals.
  - CRM training should instruct crewmembers how to behave in ways that foster crew effectiveness.
  - CRM training should provide opportunities for crewmembers to practice the skills necessary to be effective team leaders and team members.
  - CRM training exercises should include all crewmembers functioning in the same roles (e.g., captain, first officer, and/or flight engineer, flight attendants) that they normally perform in flight.

- Good training for routine operations can have a strong positive effect on how well individuals function during times of high workload or high stress. During emergency situations, it is highly unlikely (and probably undesirable) that any crewmember would take the time to reflect upon his or her CRM training in order to choose the appropriate behavior. But practice of desirable behaviors during times of low stress increases the likelihood that emergencies will be handled effectively.

- Effective CRM has the following characteristics:

  - CRM is a comprehensive system of applying human factors concepts to improve crew performance.
  - CRM embraces all operational personnel.
  - CRM can be blended into all forms of aircrew training.
  - CRM concentrates on crewmembers’ attitudes and behaviors and their impact on safety.
  - CRM uses the crew as the unit of training.
  - CRM is training that requires the active participation of all crewmembers. It provides an opportunity for individuals and crews to examine their own behavior, and to make decisions on how to improve cockpit teamwork.

<AudioPlayer src= "/AC120-51E/CRM training is based on an awareness that a high.mp3"></AudioPlayer>
