---
title: 737 FCTM 01 General Information
sidebar: true
category: Notes
tag:
  - Boeing
tocLevels: 10
---

## Key Elements of Flight Deck Design

- All displays and controls required for flight are designed to be viewable and reachable by both pilots or duplicated at each crew station and perform satisfactorily under all lighting conditions.

- Quiet or dark flight deck during normal operations. There are minimal indications of normal status.

- Alerts are categorized into time-critical warnings, warnings and cautions, and are prioritized by the urgency of required pilot response.
  - Time critical warnings are non-normal operational or system condition requiring immediate crew awareness and corrective action to maintain safe flight.
  - Warnings alert the crew to a non-normal operational or system condition requiring immediate crew awareness and corrective action
  - Cautions alert the crew to a non-normal operational or system condition that require the possible need for future corrective action.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM01/All displays and controls required for flight are designed.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

### Pilot Responsibilities

Boeing flight decks are designed to support the priorities of aviate, navigate, communicate, and manage airplane systems.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM01/Boeing flight decks are designed.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

The flight deck design assumes the pilot will:

- Respond correctly and safely to alert conditions.
- Prioritize warnings over cautions.
- Maintain situational awareness at all times. Both pilots should check the flight instruments and flight mode annunciations and verify that the airplane is responding appropriately. Both pilots need to anticipate what needs to be done next and how the airplane should respond.
- Use the appropriate level of automation for the situation. Hand off a task to automation in the state needed. Engage automation when the workload increases and take over manual control of the airplane when needed.
- Apply critical thinking and judgment. If indications are not as expected seek verifying information and take appropriate action.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM01/The flight deck design assumes the pilot.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

## Operational Philosophy

### Events Requiring Maintenance Inspection

During ground or flight operations, events may occur which require a maintenance inspection after the flight. Use the following guidance to determine which events require a maintenance inspection:

- hard landing

  - specify if the landing was hard on the nose gear only, hard on the main gear only or hard on both main and nose gear. Specify if the landing was a hard bounced landing
  - Note: A bounced landing is defined as a landing where both main gears contact the ground and then both main gears leave the ground prior to landing.
  - Note: A nose first landing is considered to be a hard nose gear landing.

- overweight landing

  - if the overweight landing was not a hard landing the flight crew should record that the landing was not a hard landing

- high drag/high side load event

  - one or more of the following conditions occurred:
    - airplane ran off the prepared surface
    - airplane landed short of prepared surface
    - two or more tires were blown during landing
    - one or more landing gear hit an obstacle or were hit by an obstacle
    - airplane landed with a large crab or high bank angle resulting in abnormally large side-to-side forces as the airplane aligns with the runway after touchdown.

- severe turbulence
- overspeed - flap/slat, MMO/VMO, landing gear, landing gear tires
- high-energy stop (refer to the AMM for guidance)
- lightning strike
- extreme dust
- tail strike
- any event that the pilot feels a maintenance inspection could be needed. An example of such an event is an overly aggressive pitch up during a TCAS event or a Terrain Avoidance maneuver that could cause structural damage.
- operator-specific procedures or policies may include additional events that require a maintenance inspection.
- Note: If in doubt, the best course of action is to report it.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM01/During ground or flight operations.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

## Crew Resource Management

Crew resource management is the application of team management concepts and the effective use of all available resources to operate a flight safely. In addition to the aircrew, it includes all other groups routinely working with the aircrew who are involved in decisions required to operate a flight. These groups include, but are not limited to, airplane dispatchers, cabin crew, maintenance personnel, and air traffic controllers.

Throughout this manual, techniques that help build good CRM habit patterns on the flight deck are discussed. For example, situational awareness and communications are stressed. Situational awareness, or the ability to accurately perceive what is going on in the flight deck and outside the airplane, requires ongoing monitoring, questioning, crosschecking, communication, and refinement of perception.

It is important that all flight deck crewmembers identify and communicate any situation that appears unsafe or out of the ordinary. Experience has proven that the most effective way to maintain safety of flight and resolve these situations is to combine the skills and experience of all crewmembers in the decision making process to determine the safest course of action.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM01/Crew resource management is the application of team.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

## Intervention

Intervention is a set of actions taken by a flight crewmember to address the loss of shared situational awareness or an unsafe airplane state. Intervention strategies empower all crewmembers to take necessary steps to ensure safety. Intervention strategies are based on effective monitoring and can include: questions; recommendations or directions; and in an extreme case, taking control of the airplane. Ask, Recommend, Take control (ART) is an intervention model that uses escalating steps according to urgency and the airplane state. Many airlines develop other intervention policies to meet their specific operational needs.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM01/Intervention is a set of actions taken by a flight .mp3"></AudioPlayer>

## Minimum Maneuver Speed

### Flaps Down Amber Band

For all flaps-down operations (any time the flaps are not full-up) the minimum maneuver speed is the slowest speed that provides full maneuver capability, 1.3g or 40° of bank (25° of bank and 15° overshoot), to stick shaker. The top of the amber band does not vary with g load.
As airspeed is decreased below the top of the amber band, maneuver capability decreases. In 1g flight, the speed in the middle of the amber band provides adequate maneuver capability or 30° of bank (15° of bank and 15° overshoot).
The speed at the bottom of the amber band (top of the red and black tape) corresponds to stick shaker activation for the current g load. If the g load is increased during maneuvering, the stick shaker activation speed increases also.

Note: Stick shaker is set to activate before the actual stall. There is sufficient margin to recover from stick shaker without stalling.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM01/For all flaps-down operations the minimum maneuver.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

Minimum maneuver speeds (displayed as the top of the lower amber band) should not be confused with flap maneuver speeds. Flap maneuver speeds are based on airplane weight, while the minimum maneuver speed is calculated using airplane angle of attack and current airspeed. These speeds provide independent means to ensure that the current airspeed provides at least full maneuver capability for terminal-area maneuvering.

Note: During normal conditions, the flap maneuver speed for the current flap detent should always be equal to or faster than the minimum maneuver speed. During some non-normal conditions, the flap maneuver speed for the current flap position may be less than the minimum maneuver speed.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM01/Minimum maneuver speeds should not be confused .mp3"></AudioPlayer>
