---
title: 737 FCTM 05 Approach and Missed Approach
sidebar: true
category: Notes
tag:
  - Boeing
tocLevels: 10
---

## Approach

### Stabilized Approach Recommendations

#### Recommended Elements of a Stabilized Approach

##### The following recommendations are consistent with criteria developed by the Flight Safety Foundation.

All approaches should be stabilized by 1,000 feet AFE in instrument meteorological conditions (IMC) and by 500 feet AFE in visual meteorological conditions (VMC). An approach is considered stabilized when all of the following criteria are met:

- the airplane is on the correct flight path
- only small changes in heading and pitch are required to maintain the correct flight path
- the airplane should be at approach speed. Deviations of +10 knots to – 5 knots are acceptable if the airspeed is trending toward approach speed
- the airplane is in the correct landing configuration
- sink rate is no greater than 1,000 fpm; if an approach requires a sink rate greater than 1,000 fpm, a special briefing should be conducted
- thrust setting is appropriate for the airplane configuration
- all briefings and checklists have been conducted.

##### Specific types of approaches are stabilized if they also fulfill the following:

- ILS and GLS approaches should be flown within one dot of the glide slope and localizer, or within the expanded localizer scale
- approaches using IAN should be flown within one dot of the glide path and FAC
- during a circling approach, wings should be level on final when the airplane reaches 300 feet AFE.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM05/Recommended Elements of a Stabilized Approach.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

Unique approach procedures or abnormal conditions requiring a deviation from the above elements of a stabilized approach require a special briefing.

Note: If an approach becomes unstabilized below 1,000 feet AFE in IMC or below 500 feet AFE in VMC a missed approach is recommended.

These conditions should be maintained throughout the rest of the approach for it to be considered a stabilized approach. If the above criteria cannot be established and maintained until approaching the flare, initiate a go-around.

At 100 feet HAT for all visual approaches, the airplane should be positioned so the flight deck is within, and tracking to remain within, the lateral confines of the runway edges extended.

As the airplane crosses the runway threshold it should be:

- stabilized on approach airspeed to within + 10 knots until arresting descent rate at flare
- on a stabilized flight path using normal maneuvering
- positioned to make a normal landing in the touchdown zone (the first 3,000 feet or first third of the runway, whichever is less).

Initiate a go-around if the above criteria cannot be maintained.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM05/Unique approach procedures or abnormal conditions.mp3"></AudioPlayer>
