---
title: 737 FCTM 03 Takeoff and Initial Climb
sidebar: true
category: Notes
tag:
  - Boeing
tocLevels: 10
---

## Takeoff

### Takeoff Speeds

Proper takeoff speeds (V1, VR, and V2) are based on takeoff weight, flaps setting, thrust rating and assumed temperature, ambient temperature, QNH, wind, runway surface condition, and performance options. The FCOM and FMC computed takeoff speeds (if enabled) are only valid for dispatch performance based on balanced field length, no improved climb, the most forward CG limit, and dry or wet runway.

The FCOM and FMC computed takeoff speeds do not consider runway length available, minimum engine-out climb gradient capability, or obstacle clearance requirement. The FCOM and FMC computed takeoff speeds can only be used when compliance of these requirements has been verified separately with a takeoff analysis (runway/airport analysis), another approved source, or by dispatch. The FCOM and FMC computed takeoff speeds are not valid for dispatch performance based on optimized V1 (unbalanced field length), Improved Climb, alternate forward CG limit, or contaminated or slippery runway.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM03/Proper takeoff speeds.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

## Crosswind Takeoff

Begin the takeoff roll with the control wheel approximately centered. Throughout the takeoff roll, gradually increase control wheel displacement into the wind only enough to maintain approximately wings level.

Note: Excessive control wheel displacement during rotation and liftoff increases spoiler deployment. As spoiler deployment increases, drag increases and lift is reduced which results in reduced tail clearance, a longer takeoff roll, and slower airplane acceleration.

At liftoff, the airplane is in a sideslip with crossed controls. A slow, smooth recovery from this sideslip is accomplished by slowly neutralizing the control wheel and rudder pedals after liftoff.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM03/Begin the takeoff roll with th.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

## Takeoff Field Length - Title 14, CFR

The takeoff field length is the longest of the following:

- the distance required to accelerate with all engines, experience an engine failure 1 second prior to V1, continue the takeoff and reach a point 35 feet above the runway at V2 speed. (Accelerate-Go Distance).
- the distance required to accelerate with all engines, experience an event 1 second prior to V1, recognize the event, initiate the stopping maneuver and stop within the confines of the runway (Accelerate-Stop Distance).
- 1.15 times the all engine takeoff distance required to reach a point 35 feet above the runway.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM03/The takeoff field length is.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

## Rejected Takeoff Decision

### Go/Stop Decision Near V1

It was determined when the aviation industry produced the Takeoff Safety Training Aid in 1992 that the existing definition of V1 might have caused confusion because they did not make it clear that V1 is the maximum speed at which the flight crew must take the first action to reject a takeoff. The U.S. National Transportation Safety Board also noted in their 1990 study of rejected takeoff accidents, that the late initiation of rejected takeoffs was the leading cause of runway excursions. As a result, the FAA has changed the definition of V1 in 14 CFR Part 25 to read as follows:

- V1 means the maximum speed in the takeoff at which the pilot must take the first action (for example, apply brakes, reduce thrust, deploy speedbrakes) to stop the airplane within the accelerate-stop distance and
- V1 also means the minimum speed in the takeoff, following a failure of an engine at which the pilot can continue the takeoff and achieve the required height above the takeoff surface within the takeoff distance.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM03/It was determined when the av.mp3"></AudioPlayer>
