---
title: 737 FCTM 06 Landing
sidebar: true
category: Notes
tag:
  - Boeing
tocLevels: 10
---

## Flare and Touchdown

### Bounced Landing Recovery

If higher than idle thrust is maintained through initial touchdown, the automatic speedbrake deployment may be disabled even when the speedbrakes are armed. This can result in a bounced landing. During the resultant bounce, if the thrust levers are then retarded to idle, automatic speedbrake deployment can occur. This results in a loss of lift and nose up pitching moment which can result in a tail strike or hard landing on a subsequent touchdown.

If the airplane bounces during a landing attempt, hold or re-establish a normal landing attitude and add thrust as necessary to control the rate of descent. Thrust need not be added for a shallow bounce or skip. If a high, hard bounce occurs, initiate a go-around. Manually advance thrust levers to go-around thrust, and verify speedbrakes are retracted. Do not retract the flaps or landing gear until a positive rate of climb is established because a second touchdown may occur during the go-around. When safely airborne continue with the Go-Around and Missed Approach procedure as prescribed in the FCOM/QRH.

::: details Note

Note: When landing, the TO/GA switches of fail operational airplanes are inhibited near touchdown and on the ground. Refer to the FCOM, Automatic Flight chapter for details.

:::

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM06/If higher than idle thrust is maintained.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

## Rejected Landing / Balked Landing

### Rejected Landing

A rejected landing is a discontinued landing attempt and go-around initiated at low altitude (below DA(H) or MDA(H)) but prior to touchdown. If a rejected landing becomes necessary, follow the Go-Around and Missed Approach procedure as prescribed in the FCOM/QRH.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM06/Rejected Landing.mp3"></AudioPlayer>

::: details Note

Note: When landing, the TO/GA switches of fail operational airplanes are inhibited near touchdown and on the ground. Refer to the FCOM, Automatic Flight chapter for details.

:::

### Balked Landing

A balked landing is a discontinued landing attempt and go-around initiated at or after touchdown, but prior to initiation of reverse thrust. The balked landing technique maintains landing flap configuration to expedite climb away from the runway environment. Considerations for a balked landing include clearance of an obstacle in the runway environment, insufficient runway for continued landing, or transitioning to a go-around from a low-energy state.

::: details Note

Note: When landing, the TO/GA switches of fail operational airplanes are inhibited near touchdown and on the ground. Refer to the FCOM, Automatic Flight chapter for details.

:::

When performing a balked landing, disengage the autopilot, disconnect the autothrottle, smoothly advance thrust levers to go-around thrust, and verify speedbrakes are retracted. Maintain landing flaps configuration and smoothly rotate toward 15° pitch attitude at no less than VREF. Column forces during rotation can vary. When safely airborne with a positive rate of climb, continue the Go-Around and Missed Approach procedure as prescribed in the FCOM/QRH.

::: warning Warning

After reverse thrust is initiated, a full stop landing must be made. If an engine stays in reverse, safe flight is not possible.

:::

::: info Note

The takeoff configuration warning horn sounds when on the ground due to landing flap configuration.

:::

Selecting the go-around flaps during a balked landing can cause a decrease in the airplane lift and can result in increased takeoff distance. However, if there is sufficient runway remaining to safely complete the balked landing with the go-around flap setting, the go-around flap setting can be selected.
For bounced landings, see Bounced Landing Recovery discussion this chapter.

<AudioPlayer src= "/Boeing/737FCTM06/Balked Landing.mp3"></AudioPlayer>
